# BIC Posterior Probabilities of Neighboring Models

Identify neighboring models, fit them, and return the BIC posterior
probabilities.

## Usage

``` r
model_set(
  sem_out,
  partables = NULL,
  model_set_out = NULL,
  prior_sem_out = NULL,
  must_add = NULL,
  must_not_add = NULL,
  must_drop = NULL,
  must_not_drop = NULL,
  loadings_to_exclude_from_drop = c("single", "none", "all"),
  remove_constraints = TRUE,
  exclude_error_cov = TRUE,
  exclude_feedback = TRUE,
  exclude_xy_cov = TRUE,
  exclude_x_changed_to_y = TRUE,
  cross_add = c("pure_x", "pure_y"),
  cross_sets = NULL,
  df_change_add = 1,
  df_change_drop = 1,
  remove_duplicated = TRUE,
  fit_models = ifelse(!is.null(model_set_out$fit), FALSE, TRUE),
  compute_bpp = TRUE,
  original = "original",
  parallel = FALSE,
  ncores = max(parallel::detectCores(logical = FALSE) - 1, 1),
  make_cluster_args = list(),
  progress = TRUE,
  verbose = TRUE,
  skip_check_sem_out = FALSE,
  drop_equivalent_models = TRUE
)

gen_models(
  sem_out,
  must_add = NULL,
  must_not_add = NULL,
  must_drop = NULL,
  must_not_drop = NULL,
  loadings_to_exclude_from_drop = c("single", "none", "all"),
  remove_constraints = TRUE,
  exclude_error_cov = TRUE,
  exclude_feedback = TRUE,
  exclude_xy_cov = TRUE,
  exclude_x_changed_to_y = TRUE,
  cross_add = c("pure_x", "pure_y"),
  cross_sets = NULL,
  df_change_add = 1,
  df_change_drop = 1,
  remove_duplicated = TRUE,
  drop_equivalent_models = TRUE,
  progress = TRUE,
  output = c("partables", "model_set")
)
```

## Arguments

- sem_out:

  It can be the output from an SEM function. Currently it supports
  [lavaan::lavaan](https://rdrr.io/pkg/lavaan/man/lavaan-class.html)
  objects only. If it is a named list of
  [lavaan::lavaan](https://rdrr.io/pkg/lavaan/man/lavaan-class.html)
  objects, then all arguments for model generation will be ignored, and
  models will not be refitted. Users need to ensure that the models can
  be meaningfully compared because they will not be checked.

- partables:

  A `partables`-class object, usually generated by
  [`get_add()`](https://sfcheung.github.io/modelbpp/reference/get_add.md)
  or
  [`get_drop()`](https://sfcheung.github.io/modelbpp/reference/get_drop.md).
  A named list of parameter tables to be fitted along with the original
  model in `sem_out`. If supplied, all arguments related to identifying
  models will be ignored. Default is `NULL`.

- model_set_out:

  If set to the output of a previous call to `model_set()` (a
  `model_set`-class object), the list of stored models will be used. All
  arguments related to generate neighboring models will be ignored. If
  supplied, `sem_out` will also be ignored and will be retrieved from
  `model_set_out`, and `partables` will also be ignored. Default is
  `NULL`.

- prior_sem_out:

  The prior of the model fitted in `sem_out`. Default is `NULL`, and all
  models will have equal prior probabilities.

- must_add:

  A character vector of parameters, named in
  [`lavaan::lavaan()`](https://rdrr.io/pkg/lavaan/man/lavaan.html) style
  (e.g., `"y ~ x"`), that must be added. Default is `NULL`.

- must_not_add:

  A character vector of parameters, named in
  [`lavaan::lavaan()`](https://rdrr.io/pkg/lavaan/man/lavaan.html) style
  (e.g., `"x1 ~~ x1"`), that must not be added. Default is `NULL`.

- must_drop:

  A character vector of parameters, named in
  [`lavaan::lavaan()`](https://rdrr.io/pkg/lavaan/man/lavaan.html) style
  (e.g., `"y ~ x"`), that must be included. Default is `NULL`.

- must_not_drop:

  A character vector of parameters, named in
  [`lavaan::lavaan()`](https://rdrr.io/pkg/lavaan/man/lavaan.html) style
  (e.g., `"x1 ~~ x1"`), that must not be included. Default is `NULL`.

- loadings_to_exclude_from_drop:

  Whether factor loadings will be excluded when deciding parameters to
  drop. If `"single"`, then only "single" loadings (an indicator loads
  on only one latent factor) will be excluded (they will not be
  dropped). If `"all"`, then all factor loadings will be excluded (no
  factor loadings will be dropped). If `"none"`, then no loadings will
  be excluded, and all free loadings will be considered to be dropped.
  Be careful when using `"none"` because the models may not make sense.
  The settings in `must_drop` and `must_not_drop` will override this
  argument.

- remove_constraints:

  Whether equality constraints will be removed. Default is `TRUE`.

- exclude_error_cov:

  Exclude error covariances of indicators. Default is `TRUE`.

- exclude_feedback:

  Exclude paths that will result in a feedback loop. For example, if
  there is path from `x` through `m` to `y`, then the path `x ~ y` will
  create a feedback loop. Default has been changed to `TRUE` since
  Version 0.1.3.5 because feedback loops are usually not included except
  when theoretically justified. To reproduce results based on previous
  version, set this argument to `FALSE`.

- exclude_xy_cov:

  Exclude covariance between two variables, in which one has a path to
  another. For example, if there is path from `x` through `m` to `y`,
  then the covariance `x ~~ y`, which denotes the covariance between `x`
  and the error term of `y`, will be excluded if this argument is
  `TRUE`. Default has been changed to `TRUE` since Version 0.1.3.5
  because these covariances rarely are interpretable. To reproduce
  results based on previous version, set this argument to `FALSE`.

- exclude_x_changed_to_y:

  Exclude changes that make a "pure" `x` variable to a `y` variable. For
  example, adding the path `x2 ~ x1` to the model `y ~ x1 + x2`.

- cross_add:

  A character vector of whether and how cross-loadings (an indicator
  loads on two or more latent factors) will be added. If `NULL`, no
  cross-loadings will be added. If `"lav_x"` is in the vector, then
  cross-loadings among "pure-x" latent factors, latent factors that do
  not regress on any other variables, will be considered. If `"lav_y"`
  is in the vector, then cross-loadings among "pure-y" latent factors,
  latent factors that regress on at least one variables but they
  themselves do not predict any other variables, will be considered. If
  `"user"` is in the vector, then cross-loadings among latent factors
  listed in `cross_sets` will be considered.

- cross_sets:

  A character vector of latent variables for which cross-loadings will
  be considered. Ignored if `"user"` is not in `cross_add`. Note that
  cross-loadings involving latent variables which are mediators will not
  be considered. To add them, they must be specified explicitly in
  `must_add`.

- df_change_add:

  How many degrees of freedom (*df*) away in the list. All models with
  *df* change less than or equal to this number will be included, taking
  into account requirements set by other arguments. Default is 1.

- df_change_drop:

  How many degrees of freedom away in the list. All models with *df*
  change less than or equal to this number will be included, taking into
  account requirements set by other arguments. Default is 1.

- remove_duplicated:

  If `TRUE`, the default, duplicated models are removed.

- fit_models:

  If `TRUE`, the models will be fitted to the data, usually stored in
  `sem_out`. If `FALSE`, the models will be returned as is, in the
  element `models` of the output. If `model_set_out` is set and models
  have been fitted, then default is `FALSE`. Otherwise, default is
  `TRUE`.

- compute_bpp:

  If `TRUE`, then BIC posterior probabilities will be computed. Default
  is `TRUE`.

- original:

  String. The name of the original (traget) model. Default is
  `"original"`. Used if `prior_sem_out` is unnamed and only has one
  value.

- parallel:

  If `TRUE`, parallel processing will be used to fit the models. Default
  is `FALSE`.

- ncores:

  Numeric. The number of CPU cores to be used if `parallel` is `TRUE`.

- make_cluster_args:

  A list of named arguments to be passed to
  [`parallel::makeCluster()`](https://rdrr.io/r/parallel/makeCluster.html).
  Used by advanced users to configure the cluster if `parallel` is
  `TRUE`. Default is [`list()`](https://rdrr.io/r/base/list.html).

- progress:

  Whether a progress bar will be displayed, implemented by the `pbapply`
  package or by
  [`utils::txtProgressBar`](https://rdrr.io/r/utils/txtProgressBar.html).
  Default is `TRUE`.

- verbose:

  Whether additional messages will be displayed, such as the expected
  processing time. Default is `TRUE`.

- skip_check_sem_out:

  If `TRUE` and `sem_out` is set, check whether `sem_out` is of a
  supported type (estimator is `"ML"` and the model has only one group).
  If not, an error will be raised. Can be set to `FALSE` for
  experimenting the functions on models not officially supported.

- drop_equivalent_models:

  If `TRUE`, the default, equivalent models will be dropped in the final
  output. This check can only be conducted when no models are fitted in
  [`lavaan::lavaan()`](https://rdrr.io/pkg/lavaan/man/lavaan.html) with
  `fixed.x = TRUE` (which is the default of
  [`lavaan::sem()`](https://rdrr.io/pkg/lavaan/man/sem.html)).

- output:

  If `"model_set"`, then the output is a `model_set`-class object. If
  `"partables"`, the output is a `partables`-class object. Default is
  `partables`.

## Value

The function `model_set()` returns an object of the class `model_set`, a
list with the following major elements:

- `models`: A named list of parameter tables. Each represent the models
  identified.

- `bic`: A numeric vector, of the same length as `model`. The BIC of
  each model.

- `postprob`: A numeric vector, of the same length as `model`. The BIC
  posterior probability of each model.

- `fit`: A named list of
  [`lavaan::lavaan()`](https://rdrr.io/pkg/lavaan/man/lavaan.html)
  output objects or [`update()`](https://rdrr.io/r/stats/update.html)
  for fitting a model with the added parameters, of the same length as
  `model`.

- `change`: A numeric vector, of the same length as `model`. The change
  in model df for each fit. A positive number denotes one less free
  parameter. A negative number denotes one more free parameter or one
  less constraint.

- `converged`: A named vector of boolean values, of the same length as
  `model`. Indicates whether each fit converged or not.

- `post_check`: A named vector of boolean values, of the same length as
  `model`. Indicates whether the solution of each fit is admissible or
  not. Checked by
  [`lavaan::lavInspect()`](https://rdrr.io/pkg/lavaan/man/lavInspect.html).

The object returned by `gen_models()` depends on the argument `output`.
See the argument `output` for the details

## Details

It computes the BIC posterior probabilities of a set of models by the
method presented in Wu, Cheung, and Leung (2020).

First, a list of model is identified based on user-specified criteria.
By default, models differ from a fitted model by one degree of freedom,
the 1-df-away *neighboring* models, will be found using
[`get_add()`](https://sfcheung.github.io/modelbpp/reference/get_add.md)
and
[get_drop](https://sfcheung.github.io/modelbpp/reference/get_drop.md).

Second, these models will be fitted to the sample dataset, and their
BICs will be computed.

Third, their BIC posterior probabilities will be computed using their
BICs. By default, equal prior probabilities for all the models being
fitted will be assumed in the current version. This can be changed by
`prior_sem_out`.

The results can then be printed, with the models sorted by descending
order of BIC posterior probabilities. The results can also be visualized
using
[`model_graph()`](https://sfcheung.github.io/modelbpp/reference/model_graph.md).

## Functions

- `model_set()`: Compute the BPPs of a list of models. Can generate the
  models and/or fit the models. Can also accept pregenerated models, or
  just update BPPs.

- `gen_models()`: Generate a list of models (parameter tables).

## References

Wu, H., Cheung, S. F., & Leung, S. O. (2020). Simple use of BIC to
assess model selection uncertainty: An illustration using mediation and
moderation models. *Multivariate Behavioral Research*, *55*(1), 1–16.
[doi:10.1080/00273171.2019.1574546](https://doi.org/10.1080/00273171.2019.1574546)

## See also

[`print.model_set()`](https://sfcheung.github.io/modelbpp/reference/print.model_set.md)

## Author

Shu Fai Cheung <https://orcid.org/0000-0002-9871-9448>

## Examples

``` r
library(lavaan)

dat <- dat_path_model

mod <-
"
x3 ~ a*x1 + b*x2
x4 ~ a*x1
ab := a*b
"

fit <- sem(mod, dat_path_model, fixed.x = TRUE)

out <- model_set(fit)
#> 
#> Generate 2 less restrictive model(s):
#>   |                                                  | 0 % ~calculating    |+++++++++++++++++++++++++                         | 50% ~00s            |++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++| 100% elapsed=00s  
#> 
#> Generate 2 more restrictive model(s):
#>   |                                                  | 0 % ~calculating    |+++++++++++++++++++++++++                         | 50% ~00s            |++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++| 100% elapsed=00s  
#> 
#> Check for duplicated models (5 model[s] to check):
#>   |                                                          |                                                  |   0%  |                                                          |+++++                                             |  10%  |                                                          |++++++++++                                        |  20%  |                                                          |+++++++++++++++                                   |  30%  |                                                          |++++++++++++++++++++                              |  40%  |                                                          |+++++++++++++++++++++++++                         |  50%  |                                                          |++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++                    |  60%  |                                                          |+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++               |  70%  |                                                          |++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++          |  80%  |                                                          |+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++     |  90%  |                                                          |++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++| 100%
#> 
#> Fit the 5 model(s) (duplicated models removed):
out
#> 
#> Call:
#> model_set(sem_out = fit)
#> 
#> Number of model(s) fitted           : 5
#> Number of model(s) converged        : 5
#> Number of model(s) passed post.check: 5
#> 
#> The models (sorted by BPP):
#>                      model_df df_diff Prior     BIC   BPP   cfi rmsea  srmr
#> add: x4~x2                  1       1 0.200 400.291 1.000 1.000 0.017 0.023
#> original                    2       0 0.200 431.452 0.000 0.736 0.417 0.194
#> add: (x3~x1),(x4~x1)        1       1 0.200 435.397 0.000 0.733 0.593 0.193
#> drop: x3~~x4                3      -1 0.200 441.229 0.000 0.634 0.401 0.231
#> drop: x3~x2                 3      -1 0.200 455.926 0.000 0.522 0.458 0.255
#> 
#> Note:
#> - BIC: Bayesian Information Criterion.
#> - BPP: BIC posterior probability.
#> - model_df: Model degrees of freedom.
#> - df_diff: Difference in df compared to the original/target model.
#> - To show cumulative BPPs, call print() with 'cumulative_bpp = TRUE'.
#> - At least one model has fixed.x = TRUE. The models are not checked for
#>   equivalence.
#> - Since Version 0.1.6.3, the default ways to handle factor loadings
#>   have changed. Check the NEWS by news(package = 'modelbpp') to see how
#>   to reproduce results from previous versions.
```
